Now we take a nicer,
relaxing turn to produce
some highly visual code for, I guess,
concatenating text, joining up strings.
One of these is very not visual, line 3
to 5, that's terrible English, isn't it?
Very not visual.
Not very visual, line 3 to 5.
One of these is wonderfully visual,
hopefully with
the help of our template literals,
there we have one.
In line 10 where we are gonna
be able to get out output Hello,
Jo, and our command's gonna
look a lot like our output.
So here is our,
should I draw this whole thing up?
Yeah, why not.
Here is our webpage.
Ian, is it too wide?
>> It's possible.
>> Its possible.
>> [LAUGH]
>> I would say that's great,
that's a great review, okay.
And then here is our C++.
Wow, look at this!
This is really exciting to see
the markers working as well.
This is our C++, list always has body
in it by default, list of elements.
And then we head to JavaScript land
over here where we have our memory.
My goodness, I am very excited by
the marker quality, isn't this amazing?
All right, where we're going to do
some regular old JavaScript here.
For the fun of witnessing visual code and
all its benefits, but let's get started.
Paul, Paul line one tell me what's
going on and keep me walking through.
>> So
>> Line 1, what are we declaring?
>> We are initializing a variable name.
>> Yes.
>> And assigning to it
the value of string Jo.
>> Beautiful next line
we are declaring what?
>> We're declaring another
variable textToDisplay.
>> textToDisplay.
>> And also assigning a string to that and
that string is Hello comma space
>> I like it,
[LAUGH] I was very, very happy with that.
I like it, yes, excellent,
Hello and comma space.
I thought we were doing actually
something more interesting but no.
Great, we're just declaring it and
assigning a string.
Now we get some interesting stuff.
What are we doing here, Paul?
>> So we are reassigning
a value to textToDisplay.
>> Yeah, textToDisplay.
>> And
that is using the string function concat.
>> Nicely put by Paul, just excellent
technical communication, Paul.
Yep, I'm passing concat what?
>> Concat name.
>> Name which is here
>> Name is Jo.
>> Jo, perfect, and that is going
to evaluate to a new string, Hello,
Jo, and that's what we're reassigning
to textToDisplay as you say.
So now Hello Jo, but
we wanna add another thing, which is what?
You know what,
we're gonna do this whole thing so
you can really appreciate imperative code.
Code where you describe it line by line so
the computer can understand,
tell me what happens.
>> So the same thing, we are-
>> No, nice try, no, okay, sorry
>> [LAUGH]
>> No, no, no.
>> You're reassigning
the value of textToDisplay and
we are assigning to it the textToDisplay
the string function concat.
>> Yeah.
>> And so
we're adding to the end of
the string an exclamation point.
>> You know what, there we go.
I shouldn't have done that, but beautiful.
I hope you can see, does the code we wrote
look anything like our final output?
It couldn't look less [LAUGH] Ian is like,
to my mind, yes.
>> [LAUGH]
>> No, come on.
>> Strings are immutable and
it really bugged me you just
added to that in memory.
>> Okay, all right, yes, we'll just do it.
Let's go to our nicely
intuitive visual version.
What are we gonna do in line 10,
an alternative with the help
of template literals.
We're not here to sort of
per se do template literals,
although we will end up using
them from now on in our code.
But to appreciate that visual code for
visual output is a really nice thing.
So, Justice, help me out here,
what's happening in line 10?
>> Yeah, so we are reassigning
textToDisplay to the string.
But it's a little different,
we're using backticks instead of-
>> Yeah, backticks here.
>> Double quotations, and so
that enables us to insert
a string Hello comma space but
then we can use template
literals to assign a variable.
>> Yeah, right,
at least it's gonna evaluate to,
right here,
it's gonna evaluate to Hello, Jo!
Cuz named value is Jo, and
we can assign that to textToDisplay.
The input looks like the output.
It's not perfect but the input looks
like the output and that's really nice.
Let's read what it says.
String interpolation gives us visual
code known as template literals here.
The closer our code can be to
visual to mirroring it's visual or
graphical output, the easier for
us as developers.
Could we do something similar with our
main code by creating visual elements?
And the answer, I hope, could we emulate
our HTML with semi visual coding?
Take a look at this, we are gonna describe
the information that's
gonna go into producing
a DOM element of a type div
using an array that actually
looks quite a bit like
an HTML block of code.
Let's see what I said here.
Starting with a unit of code representing
each piece of view, JavaScript array with
all the details, Element 0 is gonna
be a type, and one is a content.
And then a function we're gonna
see that takes in that array and
produces a DOM element as its output.
We're gonna get a mirror in our code in
JavaScript of the actual DOM element,
here it is.
Yeah put all our element details in
an array and our create element,
add contents' instructions
into a convert function.
Here it is, we're gonna have
a list of information that when
we run convert on that list
produces hopefully an object that
has an accessor in JavaScript
to an actual DOM element.
But we're gonna have a manifestation
of it in JavaScript.
In practice, how this will be implemented,
we'll see we're gonna
have to handle a ton of edge cases for
it to work out any sorta scale.
But it is hard, we're getting in
JavaScript a visual representation.
Imagine if we could take that little
unit of code, that element and
have a list of them down the page
as sub-arrays of an array.
And that we could reorder them and
have that,
reorder those elements on the page,
giving me UI composition and
if I could then have those little
sub-elements be produced on mass
by a function,
I would be very, very happy.
All right, so-
>> [LAUGH]
>> Let's do it.
Here we go, we have our DOM set up,
we have our web page.
I think we are gonna use
the document object, so
let's actually put it in memory as well.
Phil, if you don't mind helping out
with the first, thinking about memory?
>> We're gonna declare a variable
called name and initialize it.
>> Forgive me, sorry, just because we're
in JavaScript running in the web browser,
and we're gonna use document.
What's the first thing
that gets preloaded?
>> In the document object body?
>> Yeah,
just a creation of document object, great.
>> I'm sorry, I thought you jumped
pass it, yep your document object.
>> Perfect document object which has
a hidden link or hidden property to where?
>> Our DOM.
>> Perfect, to our DOM,
there it is, brilliant and
it has on it a bunch of methods and getter
setter properties like body, as Phil said.
But which one are we gonna
use here in this code?
>> Create element.
>> Create element, there it is.
And now as you say,
let's get building some data.
But look at this people,
we are gonna create an intermediary.
No, that's not the right meaning
of the word intermediary, is it?
An intermediate step before
displaying that data on the view
we're going to present what it will look
like with some dynamic data placeholder,
by the way,
we should have HTML add that right?
We might not need any of this
stuff in JavaScript which we
will then convert into
actual DOM elements.
How nice, all right.
Phil, on that note,
let's go through line 1 and line 3 here.
>> At line 1 we're declaring
our named variable and
initializing it to the string of Jo.
>> Jo, perfect there it is, next line.
>> Next we're going to declare
a divInfo variable and
initialize it to an array
with three elements in it?
>> Two elements there,
I think, yeah, two elements.
>> Two elements in it,
the string div and template literal.
>> Yeah, and
I get this every time, people, but
this now evaluates here and now.
This is a statement that
needs to be evaluated.
This expression needs to be evaluated,
sorry.
So this is gonna evaluate to what, Phil?
>> The string of Hi, Jo!
>> Jo, exactly.
So we now have a visual map,
both a sort of conditional on how
our data ends up being by line
3 in our JavaScript code.
This doesn't look like JavaScript,
it's so picturesque.
And then actually in our memory the full
manifestation with the existing state,
the existing data that's gonna end
up being produced as a DOM element.
So we then save a function
that's gonna do that work, Phil?
>> Yeah,
we're gonna declare a function convert.
>> Beautiful, and yep, sorry.
>> You can store that in memory.
>> Perfect, and then all the way
down to line 14, we declare?
>> Declare a variable called jsDiv and
initialize it to the evaluated
result of executing our convert
function passing in the argument
of divInfo which is our array.
>> Beautiful, which means a brand new.
You want to do together [LAUGH].
>> [LAUGH]
>> A brand new, three, two, one.
>> Execution contract.
>> All right, beautiful,
and into it we go and
we are gonna match our parameters and
our arguments.
And let's match them, y.
>> Yes, let's match them.
>> That's right, there's a strict rule,
you're not mentor asking question,
very fast intonation and
then throw someone's name in at
the end before they get, so why?
We actually didn't convert with the input
of divInfo, which is this array.
And we are then going to match our
parameter which is node with our argument,
which is an array.
So talk me through what happens there.
>> Excellent, on line 7.
>> Yep.
>> We're gonna look up
the zeroeth index on node.
It's the string div-
>> Beautiful.
>> As it turns out.
>> Great, yeah, better to declare
our const on the left first,
if you don't mind.
>> That's right.
>> Declare our const on
the left first there.
>> Sure, yeah, so we're signing
into memory a variable named elem.
>> Beautiful, and then we're
going to call exactly as you say,
createElement() with what as its argument?
>> Yes, so on the divInfo passed in to
the node parameter,
>> Yep.
>> The zeroeth index,
there's a string div that's actually
the signature of the createElement method.
So the createElement method will
create a JavaScript object.
>> Yeah, yeah,
we remember what it does, don't we?
>> And the accessor object for
what will be a C++.
>> Newly created DOM element
over here of type what?
>> Div.
>> Div, beautiful.
Perfect, div and this is,
by the way, really nice.
Thank you Dwight,
excellent technical communication.
We passed in node position zero which was
the string div from our description of
what we wanna show up on the page,
visual description in JavaScript
if we wanna show up on the page.
And we've now created, using that,
a DOM element of that type div.
And we now have an access
to object in JavaScript for
it that has a link to that div.
There it is, all the way across.
And it has a bunch of useful getter
setter properties like textContent.
And it's that that we use in the next
line, tell me what happens, why?
>> Yeah, we look up the item at
the first index of the node array.
It's the string Hi, Jo!
And then we assign that, well,
we send it to textContent which
is a getter setter method which
will put that as the text content,
that would be-
>> Beautiful, I love that we have,
>> DOM node.
>> Hi, Jo!
Beautiful, and that is not attached.
Well, fine, we return that out
into what global constant, why?
>> Into the newly created jsDiv.
>> Beautiful, with textContent,
and we have our link to the div.
Beautiful, I had an appendix, I really
wasn't here to sort of show that process
because, have you seen that process?
Yes, I wanna show us what's new
here is a JavaScript description
of what's gonna show up on the DOM and
therefore on the page.
I probably should append it so
you can see the full route through.
If we did write
document.body.appendjsDiv or
document.body.replace children jsDiv,
we would see a div with Hi, Jo!
And I just think it's really cool that
we now have in JavaScript a visual
representation of our information
that's gonna display.
If we were to write C++ code and
just, I don't know,
know in our code that we could describe
this DOM element directly without using
the very imperative accessor object that
when we got to recall a getter setter.
Fine if we could access this directly but
we can't,
meaning if we can create in JavaScript
the representation of it and
then simply call a convert function that
does the displaying, that is pretty cool.